so a few years ago I did something
really brave or some would say really
stupid I ran for Congress for years I
had existed safely behind the scenes in
politics as a fundraiser as an organizer
but in my heart I always wanted to run
the city and congresswoman had been in
my district since 1992 she had never
lost a race and no one had really even
run against her in a Democratic primary
but in my mind this was my way to make a
difference to disrupt the status quo the
polls however told a very different
story
my pollsters told me that I was crazy to
run that there was no way that I could
win but I ran anyway and in 2012 I
became an upstart in a New York City
congressional race I swore I was going
to win
I had the endorsement from the New York
Daily News The Wall Street Journal
snapped pictures of me on election day
and CNBC called it one of the hottest
races in the country I raised money from
everyone I knew including Indian
auntie's that were just so happy an
Indian girl was running but on Election
Day the polls were right and I only got
19 percent of the vote in the same
papers that said I was a rising
political star now said I wasted 1.3
million dollars on 6321 votes don't do
the math it was humiliating now before
you get the wrong idea this is not a
talk about the importance of failure nor
is it about leaning in I tell you the
story of how I ran for Congress because
I was 33 years old and it was the first
time in my entire
her life that I had done something that
was truly brave where I didn't worry
about being perfect and I'm not alone so
many women I talked to tell me that they
gravitate towards careers and
professions that they know they're going
to be great in that they know they're
going to be perfect in and it's no
wonder why most girls are taught to
avoid risk and failure they're taught to
smile pretty
play it safe get all A's bullies on the
other hand are taught to play rough
swing high crawl to the top of the
monkey bars and then just jump off
headfirst and by the time they're adults
and whether they're negotiating a raise
or even asking someone out on a date
they're habituated to take risk after
risk they're rewarded for it it's often
said in Silicon Valley
no one even takes you seriously unless
you've had two failed startups in other
words we're raising our girls to be
perfect and we're raising our boys to be
brave some people worry about our
federal deficit but I I worry about our
bravery deficit our economy our society
we're just losing out because we're not
raising our girls to be brave the
bravery deficit is why women are
underrepresented in sin in c-suites and
boardrooms in Congress and pretty much
everywhere you look in the 1980s
psychologist Carol Dweck looked at how
bright fifth graders handled an
assignment that was too difficult for
them she found that bright girls were
quick to give up the higher the IQ the
more likely they were to give up bright
bullies on the other hand found the
difficult material to be a challenge
they found it energizing
they were more likely to redouble their
efforts what's going on
well at the 5th grade level girls
routinely outperform boys in every
subject including math and science so
it's not a question of ability
the difference is in how boys and girls
approach a challenge and it doesn't just
end in fifth grade an HP report found
that men will apply for a job if they
meet only 60% of the qualifications but
women women will apply only if they meet
a hundred percent of the qualifications
a hundred percent this study is usually
invoked as evidence that well women need
a little more confidence but I think
it's evidenced that women have been
socialized to aspire to perfection and
they're overly cautious and even when
we're ambitious even when we're leaning
in that socialization of perfection has
caused us to take less risks than our
careers and so those 600,000 jobs that
are open right now in computing in tech
women are being left behind and it means
our economy is being left behind on all
the innovation and problems women would
solve if they were socialized to be
brave
instead of socialized to be perfect so
in 2012 I started a company to teach
girls to code and what I found is that
by teaching them to code
I had socialized them to be brave coding
it's an endless process of trial and
error
of trying to get the right command in
the right place with sometimes just a
semicolon making the difference between
success and failure code breaks and then
it falls apart and it often takes many
many tries till that magical moment when
what you're trying to build comes to
life it requires perseverance
it requires imperfection we immediately
see in our program our girls fear of not
getting it right of not being perfect
every girls who code teacher tells me
the same story during the first week
when the girls are learning how to code
a student will call her over and she'll
say
I don't know what code to write the
teacher will look at her screen and
she'll see a blank text editor she
didn't know any better she'll think that
her students spent the past 20 minutes
just starin at the screen but if she
presses undo a few times she'll see that
her student wrote code and then deleted
it she tried she came close but she
didn't get it exactly right instead of
showing the progress that she made she
rather show nothing at all perfection or
bust it turns out that our girls are
really good at coding but it's not
enough just to teach them to code my
friend LaBrie who's a professor at the
University of Columbia and teachers in
charge of a tells me about his office
hours with computer science students
when the guys are struggling with an
assignment they'll come in and they'll
say professor there's something wrong
with my code the girls will come in and
with me we have to begin to undo the
socialization perfection but we've got
to combine it with building a sisterhood
that lets girls know that they are not
alone because trying harder is not going
to fix a broken system I can't tell you
how many women tell me I'm afraid to
raise my hand I'm afraid to ask a
question because I don't want to be the
only one who doesn't understand the only
one who's struggling when we teach girls
to be brave and we have a supportive
Network cheering them on they will build
incredible things and I see this every
day
take for instance two of our high school
students who built a game called tampon
run yes tampon run to fight against a
menstruation taboo and sexism in gaming
or the Syrian refugee who dare show her
love for her new country by building an
app to help Americans get to the polls
or a sixteen year old girl who built an
algorithm to help detect whether a
cancer is benign or malignant in the off
chance that she can save her daddy's
life because he has cancer these are
just three examples of thousands
thousands of girls who've been
socialized to be imperfect who've
learned to keep trying who learned
perseverance and whether they become
coders or the next Hillary Clinton or
Beyonce they will not defer their dreams
and those dreams have never been more
important for our country for the
American economy for any economy to grow
to truly innovate we cannot leave behind
half our population we have to socialize
our girls to be comfortable with
imperfection and we gotta do it now we
cannot wait for them to learn how to be
brave like I did when I was 33 years old
we have to teach them to be brave in
schools and early in their careers when
it has the most potential to impact
their lives and the lives of others and
we have to show them that they will be
loved and accepted not for being perfect
but for being courageous and so I need
each of you tell every young woman you
know your sister your niece your
employee your colleague to be
comfortable with imperfection because
when we teach girls to be imperfect and
we help them leverage it we will build a
movement of young women who are brave
and who will build a better world for
themselves and for each and every one of
us thank you
rushon thank you it's such a powerful
vision you have you have a vision tell
me how it's going like how many girls
are involved now in your program yeah so
in 2012 we taught twenty girls this year
we'll teach forty thousand in all 50
states that number is really powerful
because last year we we only graduated
seventy five hundred women in computer
science like the problem is so bad that
we can make that type of change quickly
and you're working with some of the
companies in this room even right who
are welcoming graduates from your
program yeah we have about 80 partners
from Twitter to Facebook to Adobe to IBM
to Microsoft to Pixar to Disney I mean
every single company other and if you're
not signed up I'm going to find you
because we need every single tech
company to embed a girls who code
classroom in their office and you have
some stories back from some of those
companies that when you mix in more
gender balance in C and their
engineering teams that good things
happen great things happen I mean I
think that it's crazy to me to think
about the fact that you know right now
eighty-five percent of all consumer
purchases are made by women I mean women
use social media at a rate of six
hundred percent more than men we own the
internet and we should be building the
companies of tomorrow and I think when
companies have diverse teams and they
have incredible women that are part of
their engineering teams they build
awesome things and we see it every day
Reshma you saw the reaction there you're
doing incredibly important work this
whole community is cheering you on yeah
all power to you thank thank you thank
you